First fork the repo, then clone it:

cd ~

cd wdi

git clone https://github.com/chewjta/command-line-murder-mystery.git

To get started:

cat instructions

Step 1:
The files have too much data to go through each and everyone of them, so start by matching ‘Clues’ string in /mystery/crimescene folder (because we always need CLUES to solve a mystery:

$ grep "CLUE" crimescene

Step 2:
We are given 3 clues of the culprit.
1. A blurry cctv footage of a tall male at least 6 ft tall.
2.  Member of AAA, Delta SkyMiles, the local library, and the Museum of Bash History
3. A woman named Annabel ran as soon as the shots were heard.

We can see that the 3 clues are all ambiguous except the last one. We have a proper lead - look for ‘Annabel’s

Step 3:
We know that the people file in mystery contains the address of the suspects, so we can look in there, find their addresses and head down to interview them.

cat people | grep Annabel

We are then given 4 ‘Annabel’s and their addresses.

Annabel Sun F   26  Hart Place, line 40
Oluwasegun Annabel  M   37  Mattapan Street, line 173
Annabel Church  F   38  Buckingham Place, line 179
Annabel Fuglsang    M   40  Haley Street, line 176

The lines are important because…

$ head -n 173 streets/Mattapan_Street | tail -n 1 (remember to search in mystery folder)


This is an example for finding info of the interview with Oluwasegun Annabel.

We see line 173 is the interview number which we can use to search for the interview recording.

Therefore to breakdown the above code, it prints out the first 173 lines of the interview and then print out the last 1 line of that which is line 173 the interview number!
- SEE INTERVIEW #9437737

We do the same for the next 3 Annabels.

$ head -n 40 streets/Hart Place | tail -n 1 - Annabel Sun
.
.
$ head -n 179 streets/Buckingham_Place | tail -n 1

Ok so after reviewing all interviews, we found out that only Annabel Church’s one is useful.

- SEE INTERVIEW #699607

cd interviews

Cat interview-699607

CLUE 4: However, she reports seeing the car that fled the scene.  Describes it as a blue Honda, with a license plate that starts with "L337" and ends with "9

Navigate back to mystery folders to access vehicles.

When we look through the vehicles folders we see that we only need the first 5 lines of info.
1. License Plate
2. Car Make
3. Color
4. Height
5. Weight

Now we can finally use clue 1.

Next look for male names, height of at least 6 ft, license plate with L337XX9 and last but not least driving a blue Honda.

These leaves us with 3 names.
1. Joe Germuska
2. Jeremy Bowers
3. Jacqui Maher

Remember we still have a clue that is unused. i.e. the memberships!!

Navigate to mystery/memberships folder and then run

grep "Jeremy Bowers" *

grep "Jacqui Maher” *

grep "Joe “Germuska *

It will list the memberships files that contain these 3 guys.

We then see that only Jacqui and Jeremy have memberships in AAA, Delta SkyMiles, the local library, and the Museum of Bash History

Almost there…

Navigate back to mystery folder.



grep “Jacqui “Maher” people

Heads up, Jacqui is actually a female. Search is over.

Head -n 224 streets/Andover_Road | tail -n 1



grep "Jeremy Bowers" people

head -n 284 streets/Dunstable_Road | tail -n 1

cd interviews

cat interview-9620713

Home appears to be empty, no answer at the door.

After questioning neighbors, appears that the occupant may have left for a trip recently.

Considered a suspect until proven otherwise, but would have to eliminate other suspects to confirm


The Killer is
.
.
.

Jeremy Bowers!!!